Civi2Salsa
==========

What Is This?
-------------

This is a program written for Save Our Canyons
(http://saveourcanyons.org) to simplify their migration from CiviCRM
3.3.5 (http://civicrm.org) to Salsa (http://www.salsalabs.com) in
early 2013.  This program is designed to convert and move data in ONE
direction only from ONE release of CiviCRM to whatever Salsa was
running at the time.  The program logic incorporates the practices of
Save Our Canyons in various ways, so it may not correctly convert from
CiviCRM used differently.

Can I Use This Program?
-----------------------

You are free to use this program under the terms of the GPLv2 license
(see file LICENSE.txt).  As a practical matter, however, there are a
number of issues you must deal with.

1.  *Where is your CiviCRM database?*  This program assumes the database
    is in MySQL running on the same server.  If this is not true in your
    case, you may need to alter the code that connects to the CiviCRM
    database.

2.  *Can you access the CiviCRM database using an account that permits
    altering a table to add a column and an index?*  This program keeps
    track of where converted data is stored in Salsa by adding a column
    named salsa_key to certain tables in the CiviCRM database, which
    requires the Alter Table privilege in MySQL.

3.  *What release of CiviCRM is your database?*  This can be difficult to
    tell by examining the database.  Look in CiviCRM file
    civicrm-version.txt.  If it is not 3.3.5, you may need to modify this
    program. 

4.  *Will this program still work with Salsa?*  There is no effort to
    maintain this program as Salsa evolves.  YMMV.

5.  *How does your CiviCRM site use households and relationships?*  Save
    Our Canyons followed the practice of representing households in
    CiviCRM by spouse relationships instead of household relationships, so
    this program deals only with that situation.  If your CiviCRM database
    uses households as intended, you may need to modify this program.

6.  The civicrm_activity table is not converted.

7.  This program does not convert the parent/child relationships among
    CiviCRM groups.

8.  More than two email addresses for a contact will not be converted.
    An error message will be emitted for any contact with more than two
    unique emails.

9.  Contact name suffix is not converted.

10. When converting recurring contributions, only the month frequency
    unit and the Pending status is converted.

11. When reading location blocks from the civicrm_loc_block table, the
    im_id column and all the *_2_id columns are ignored.

12, CiviCRM pledges are converted to Salsa recurring donations rather
    than to Salsa pledges as you might expect.

13. It will not be possible to convert CiviCRM soft contributions to
    Salsa  soft donations until issue #67112 is resolved.

Why Do It This Way?  Why Not Use Salsa Import?
----------------------------------------------
The Salsa import process
(http://www.salsalabs.com/learn/packages/supporter-management/manage-imports) 
starts with your data in spreadsheets, as generated by the CiviCRM
export process.  Unfortunately it is very difficult to represent
relationships between data items in a spreadsheet.  Salsa import has a
way to create groups and assign contacts to them, and to import
donations by contacts.  To import other kinds of related data you must
supply the relevant Salsa database keys on import
(http://www.salsalabs.com/learn/packages/supporter-management/manage-imports/beyond-the-supporter-table)
which requires manual labor and is therefore slow and error prone.

Further, Salsa assumes that if two contacts have the same email
address, the second contact is a duplicate of the first and merges the
records accordingly on import.  This is not always the right thing to
do, and where it is, the Salsa deduplication tool can handle the
situation conveniently after the data is imported.

The civi2salsa program works through the Salsa external API
(http://www.salsalabs.com/devs/docs/api) which enables it to store
data in Salsa without using a spreadsheet step.  In the process,
relationships between data items are maintained with no manual
intervention.  If multiple contacts with the same email address are
found in CiviCRM, they are stored that way in Salsa.  You can then use
the Salsa deduplicate tools
(http://www.salsalabs.com/learn/packages/supporter-management/deduplicating)
to merge contact information as needed.

I'm Willing To Try.  Where Do I Start?
--------------------------------------

1.  You will almost certainly need to modify and test this program, so
    start by applying for a Salsa developer account here:

    http://www.salsalabs.com/devs/developer_signup

2.  Using the information from your developer account and the server
    running CiviCRM, copy the default.params.inc file in this directory to
    a new file called params.inc.  Then edit params.inc to describe
    where your data will come from and go to.  Start by converting
    into your developer sandbox, so SALSA_URL will be
    https://sandbox.salsalabs.com.  Define a list of  contacts for
    testing in $contact_ids.

3.  When you are ready to do the final conversion, set $contact_ids
    empty and change SALSA_URL to the real server.  The URL depends on
    which node hosts the account, but might look something like
    https://hq-salsa3.salsalabs.com.  When you log in to the real Salsa
    account, the location bar of your browser will tell how to access your
    server.

 

